+++
title = "Advent of Code Speedrunning: 2025, Day&nbsp;7 (Spoiler)"
date = "2025-12-07"
updated = "2025-12-09"
description = "Sometimes, a challenge is predictable!"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Advent of Code", "rust"]
+++
<!-- ltex: language=en -->

For [today's Advent of Code challenge](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/7), I had to find the number of points (`^`) where a beam of particles splits, only taking into account the points where a beam hits.

```name=Example
  X

  ^

 ^ ^
```

```name=Possible beams
  X
  |
 |^|
 | |
|^|^|
| | |
```

I thought about iterating line by line with a pair of vectors of `bool` (one for the previous row and one for the current row). They would hold the positions where a sub-beam is present, and I would increment a counter each time a splitter (`^`) was used.

{{ admonition(type="warning", text="The following text is a spoiler. If you wish to attempt the challenge, go solve it, and come back after! If not, click to reveal the text.") }}

{% block_spoiler() %}
In general, the second part of an Advent of Code challenge is a variant of the first part, and today's challenge was no exception. After pondering for a few seconds, I thought part&nbsp;2 would probably consist of calculating the total number of possible paths for a sub-beam.

As such, for part&nbsp;1, instead of using two vectors of `bool`, I preferred to use two vectors of integers (`Vec<u64>`), to *count* the number of sub-beams at a given point. I added the number of sub-beams when paths merged, and I counted the splitters where the number of incident beams was nonzero, which completed the first part.

When I contined with part&nbsp;2, my suspicion was confirmed. I copied over my code from part&nbsp;1, replaced the return value `cnt` from part&nbsp;1 with `cur_row.iter().sum()` (the sum of the number of sub-beams on the last row), executed the code and submitted the result. Since [the Advent of Code compilation pipeline I use](https://github.com/fspoettel/advent-of-code-rust) is quite automated, the last step was a simple `cargo solve 7 --submit 2`, all without lifting my hands from the keyboard, while remaining on the command line (yes, I use (Neo)vim).

Final time for part&nbsp;2: a measly 57&nbsp;seconds.
{% end %}
